=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Kyuureki::Ryuukyuu - Conversion between Gregorian and Okinawa Kyuureki calendar dates

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Kyuureki::Ryuukyuu;
  ($y, $m, $m_leap, $d) = gregorian_to_rkyuureki 2014, 9, 12;
  ($y, $m, $d) = rkyuureki_to_gregorian 2014, 8, 0, 19;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Kyuureki::Ryuukyuu> module exports two functions to convert a
Gregorian calendar date into a Kyuureki (Japanese classic calendar)
date as used in Okinawa (Ryuukyuu) area, and vice versa.

The Kyuureki is the calendar system used in Japan before calendar
reform at January 1, Meiji 6 (1873).

This module supports the dates between Gregorian -0666-01-30 (Kyuureki
-0666-01-01) and Gregorian 2101-01-28 (Kyuureki 2100-12-29).

A day in Kyuureki is identified by a pair of year, month, and day
numbers.  There are 12 or 13 months in a year, 12 of them are
identified by numbers 1-12.  The other month is referred to as a "leap
month", identified by the word "leap" (I<uruu> in Japanese) and the
number of the previous month.  For example, year 2012 has the "leap 3"
(I<uruu> 3) month between months 3 and 4.  There are 29 or 30 days in
a month, identified by numbers 1-30.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

Following functions are exported by the module:

=over 4

=item ($y, $m, $m_leap, $d) = gregorian_to_rkyuureki ($y, $m, $d)

Convert a date in Gregorian calendar into a date in Okinawa Kyuureki.

The arguments must be the year, month, and day numbers.  Note that the
first month (January) is month C<1>, not C<0>.

It returns the year number, the month number, whether the month is a
leap month or not, and the day number.

If the input is outside of the range, a list of four C<undef> values
is returned.

=item ($y, $m, $d) = rkyuureki_to_gregorian ($y, $m, $m_leap, $d)

Convert a date in Okinawa Kyuureki into a date in Gregorian calendar.

The arguments must be the year number, the month number, whether the
month is a leap month or not, and the day number.

It returns the year, month, and day numbers.  Note that the first
month (January) is month C<1>, not C<0>.

If the input is outside of the range, a list of three C<undef> values
is returned.

=back

The input must be a valid Gregorian or Kyuureki date.  Otherwise an
exception might be thrown, or an invalid date might be returned.

=head1 SEE ALSO

SuikaWiki:旧暦 <https://wiki.suikawiki.org/n/%E6%97%A7%E6%9A%A6>.

data-locale:calendar/kyuureki-*
<https://github.com/manakai/data-locale/blob/master/doc/calendar-kyuureki.txt>.

L<Kyuureki>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Public Domain.

=cut
