=head1 NAME

Kyuureki - Conversion between Gregorian and Kyuureki calendar dates

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Kyuureki;
  ($y, $m, $m_leap, $d) = gregorian_to_kyuureki 2014, 9, 12;
  ($y, $m, $d) = kyuureki_to_gregorian 2014, 8, 0, 19;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Kyuureki> module exports two functions to convert a Gregorian
calendar date into a Kyuureki (Japanese classic calendar) date, and
vice versa.

The Kyuureki is the calendar system used in Japan before calendar
reform at January 1, Meiji 6 (1873).

This module supports the dates between Gregorian 0445-01-25 (Kyuureki
0445-01-01) and Gregorian 2101-01-28 (Kyuureki 2100-12-29).

A day is identified in Kyuureki by year, month, and day numbers.
There are 12 or 13 months in a year, 12 of them are identified by
numbers 1-12.  The other month is referred to as a "leap month", using
the number of the previous month.  For example, year 2012 has "leap 3"
month between months 3 and 4.  There are 29 or 30 days in a month,
identified by numbers 1-30.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

Following functions are exported:

=over 4

=item ($y, $m, $m_leap, $d) = gregorian_to_kyuureki ($y, $m, $d)

Convert a date in Gregorian calendar into a date in Kyuureki.

The arguments must be the year, month, and day numbers.  Note that
January is month C<1>, not C<0>.

It returns the year number, the month number, whether the month is a
leap month or not, and the day number.

If the input is outside of the range, a list of four C<undef> values
is returned.

=item ($y, $m, $d) = kyuureki_to_gregorian ($y, $m, $m_leap, $d)

Convert a date in Kyuureki into a date in Gregorian calendar.

The arguments must be the year number, the month number, whether the
month is a leap month or not, and the day number.

It returns the year, month, and day numbers.  Note that January is
month C<1>, not C<0>.

If the input is outside of the range, a list of three C<undef> values
is returned.

=back

The input must be a valid Gregorian or Kyuureki date.  Otherwise an
exception might be thrown, or an invalid date might be returned.

=head1 SEE ALSO

SuikaWiki:旧暦 <http://wiki.suikawiki.org/n/%E6%97%A7%E6%9A%A6>.

data-locale:calendar/kyuureki-*
<https://github.com/manakai/data-locale/blob/master/doc/calendar-kyuureki.txt>.

日本暦日原典, 内田正男, 1992 (第4版).

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Public Domain.

=cut
